Android Fragments
=================

An android app demo that showcases the Fragment lifecycle. There are two activities, `MainActivity.java` and `FragmentA.java`. 
Using the logcat and Toast, this app shows the user when each callback is called.

Introduction:
---
The android fragment lifecycle includes the following callbacks: `onAttach()`, `onCreate()`, `onCreateView()`, `onViewCreated()`, 
`onStart()`, `onResume()`, `onPause()`, `onStop()`, `onDestroyView()`, `onDetach()` and `onDestroy()`.

onAttach()
---
Called when a fragment is first attached to its context. onCreate() will be called after this.

onCreate()
----
This method is called to do initial creation of the fragment.

onCreateView()
---
Creates and returns the view hierarchy associated with the fragment.

onViewCreated()
---
Called immediately after onCreateView() has returned, but before any saved state has been restored in to the view.

onStart()
---
This method makes the fragment visible to the user.

onResume()
---
Called when the fragment is visible to the user and actively running.

onPause()
---
This method is called when the fragment is no longer interacting with the user either because its activity is being paused or
a fragment operation is modifying it in the activity.

onStop()
---
This method is called when the fragment is no longer visible to the user either because its activity is being stopped or a fragment operation is modifying it in the activity.

onDestroyView()
---
This method allows the fragment to clean up resources associated with its View.

onDetach()
---
Called immediately prior to the fragment no longer being associated with its activity.

onDestroy()
---
Called to do final cleanup of the fragment's state.

About this repo
===

Run this app in Android Studio.

You can view the logcat logs by opening the logcat(Alt+6) in Android Studio while your android device is running the app and connected to your computer. 

Then type "LifeCycle" in logcat searchbar to get only messages relating to the app, or else, logcat will display all the messages generated by the device or emulator.

When you look at the actual phone screen, you can see that the toasts for each respective callback.

You can learn more about fragment lifecycle [here](https://developer.android.com/guide/fragments/lifecycle)!
